I am joined today by our lab manager Hadley Wickham. Hadley, would you introduce yourself?
Hi everyone, I'm Hadley. I make R packages and do R stuff.
Hadley makes R packages and does R stuff, and today Hadley is going to be talking about
the combination of data dictionaries, Claude, parquet files, in order to help us make our
data sensible to not only human beings, but also to machines. Hadley, will you give us a little
rundown and then feel free to share your screen and jump right in.
I am going to share my screen.
And we will all help Hadley know whether or not it's too small. So hop in the Discord and
let us know if something is too tiny to see.
Okay, and I made a couple of very short notes before we get into it,
just to remind me what we're talking about.
And basically, since the last data lab that I came on,
I kind of realized if you're going to be using AI agents to help you do data analysis,
you need to write down what you know about the data,
so that AI agents can be as helpful as possible.
Of course, in some sense, like you should always have been doing this,
because your human colleagues also benefit from this information.
But for some reason, some unfortunate quirk of human psychology,
it seems to be much more motivating to write this stuff down for non-humans than for humans.
So I've been thinking about this idea of data dictionaries.
Certainly not a new idea, but I'm going to show you a little spec,
pretty lightweight spec, for data dictionaries that I've been working on,
and a workflow that I find super compelling, where you have three files, a data cleaning script,
a data dictionary, and your final cleaned data.
And you mostly edit them using Claude code.
And I think this combination just feels really, really cool to me.
And I should say, fast get, because that is super important.
And I'm going to be showing you these tools today in Positron,
with Claude code, and with a Claude code tool called MCP REPL,
which Isabella will hopefully drop a link in the chat.
So MCP REPL is an open source tool developed by my colleague Tomasz.
It basically allows any AI tool to run a persistent R or Python session,
so it can run data analysis code for you.
You can also do this using RStudio, and Posit AI, Posit Assistant,
or Positron, and Posit AI, and Posit Assistant, and other tools,
and get very similar results.
I am just playing around with this one at the moment,
so do not read anything particular into my use of tools.
This is just one of my experiments, trying different tools,
and seeing how they feel, and how they should inform the design of my work.
And how they should inform the design of future tools.
Okay, really quickly, since you mentioned MCP,
can you talk a little bit about what that is?
Noor had asked in the chat.
MCP, I can't remember what it stands for.
Even if I did, it's a useless acronym,
because it doesn't really explain what it does.
It's Model Context Protocol.
Yeah, it's basically a way of giving AI agents access to new tools to do things.
I don't know, MCP servers can kind of do anything.
So in this case, we're going to be using them to run R code.
So this is just kind of a general extension or plugin system for AI coding tools.
And we're using this MCP REPL, which works for R and Python.
And we're going to see that shortly.
And what I'm going to be doing is,
I'm going to be working with this dataset called Elevators,
that my colleague, Emil, gave to me,
because he really likes it, because it's a fun dataset.
We're going to start with a CSV file,
with basically no knowledge about what's going on in this file.
And kind of over the course of the next hour or so,
sort of build up some knowledge and write all that down.
And hopefully come up with a cleaner dataset at the end of it.
And so I'm going to kick this off by asking Claude,
write me a plain R script to read Elevators and CSV,
and save a parquet file.
So if you don't know what a parquet file is,
you should learn about them,
because they are basically like a CSV file,
but basically better in every single possible way.
They're smaller, they're faster.
You don't have to worry about different types and different missing values.
You can read them into every single programming language you can imagine.
So I've done that, and Claude is doing something.
Okay, and it's come out with this clean.r script.
Wow, it's really...
Wow, okay, it's really gone all out there.
It's done a bunch of stuff that I didn't want,
and I didn't do 30 minutes ago when I tried this out.
So I'm going to tell it, hey, ramp it back.
So I want us to start just as simply as possible.
Yeah, okay, that is what I am looking for.
Why has it chosen to skip that first line?
I do not know, and I'm just going to delete that.
Okay, so I can run that code, and now I get a parquet file.
Positron has a built-in parquet file viewer,
which makes it easier to explore.
Okay, so you probably could have written this code faster
by yourself than with ThoughtCode,
especially given that it gave us a bunch of crap we didn't want.
But that is life working with AI.
So what we're going to do next is we're going to describe
this data set in a data dictionary.
And I think we'll just kind of dive into that.
I'm going to tell Claude to go read this.
Oops, read that.
And while I show you what I just told Claude to read,
which is this spec.
So data dictionary, or the data dictionary format
that I've come up with, is just a YAML file.
And we'll kind of see it very shortly.
It's easier to understand with a concrete example.
But it's basically going to describe all your tables,
the fields inside those tables,
relationships between those tables,
and then any kind of domain-specific terminology
that you might want.
So let's see.
It's Reddit.
OK.
And please make me a spec using what you know
as our MOC elevators.
And certainly, Claude knows a lot more about elevators
than I do.
So hopefully, it'll at least guess
at what some of these possibly cryptic variable names
actually do.
Well, OK.
I think I can figure out what house number is
and street name.
But what's device type and last parent's date,
et cetera, et cetera.
So it's going to write a little bit of R code.
I guess I can press Control-R-O and see what's happening.
This is one of the downsides of using this approach,
rather than using Posit Assistant,
is it's just going to slap it all together.
And it's very hard for me to see what it's doing.
OK.
Wow.
It's really hard to read this without new lines.
But it's basically looking at the variables
and just tabulating them.
So we'll give it a few seconds there.
And if there's any questions, now would be a great time.
Yeah.
While it's cooking, Nitobacco asked,
are there any cases where the CSV format is actually
a better choice than Parquet?
Or are we just defaulting to Parquet is better all the time?
I think, though, the two related downsides of Parquet files
is that they are not text files.
So that means you can't just open them in a text file
and easily look and see what's going on.
That means you can't easily see them on GitHub.
And you can't easily look at diffs.
But by and large, looking at large files in this way anyway
is not so great.
I think that's a relatively minor downside.
But Positron has a Parquet viewer,
which makes it a lot easier.
Exactly.
We also had a question about your pipes
being rendered as triangles.
So I told him in the chat, it's because Hadley's
using a font with ligatures.
But I figured I'd ask you what font you use.
Is it Fira?
I feel like everyone loves Fira.
But then every time I assume that, it's not.
Monospace Neon.
This is a font that GitHub made.
And I guess I have selected a bunch of ligatures.
I have no recollection of doing that.
But I'll ask Hadley to clearly set that up.
OK, so here's my data dictionary.
OK, what's in it?
Every elevator, escalator, dumbwaiter,
and related conveyance device.
One Roper device.
OK, what fields?
DV device number.
DOB device identifier.
I've got some information.
So I should say, yes, like this.
So this data set has one table called elevators.
That table has a bunch of columns.
Each column has a name and a type.
This is a string.
We've got some information about constraints.
Maybe it's a primary key, or it can never contain missing values.
A description, and then some examples.
So the data dictionary includes examples,
because that's super useful for humans.
And it's super duper useful for LLMs as well.
OK, and we've got device status.
This is an enum, or like a factor.
It has these five possible values,
which mean these five possible things.
So I'm not going to go through all of the variables in detail,
but you can kind of see, like, this is a great place
to record what you learn about the data set.
And what I'm going to do now,
because I want to see how this changes over time,
I'm going to just turn Git on,
and I'm just going to say, first, select.
Because I lied earlier,
and we do actually have a little bit of context
about this data set.
And there's this readme file that comes with the original data set
that points out a few things.
So, like, zip code is frequently listed as a nine-digit zip plus four.
So what I want to do now is take that,
tell Claude there's some extra context,
and update.
And again, I'm going to try and use an LLM like I do normally,
which is, I just kind of press my fingers on the keys
in approximately the correct order,
and hope that the LLM just figures it out.
So I'm going to try not to worry about spelling mistakes,
even though I'm presenting to you,
because that's not what I do when I'm working by myself.
So again, we'll let that cook for a little bit.
If you've got any more questions.
We did have one question about Parquet files,
and just so everybody knows,
we are having a whole episode on Parquet files in June with Nick Crane,
so we can deep dive then.
But the question was,
are there any examples of applications that output Parquet files
or scientific instrumentation that outputs to Parquet?
Not that I know of.
It's been a little,
this Parquet files are mostly used by kind of big data engineering tools.
They power like Snowflake and Databricks.
You can use them with DuckDB.
Less common in science, I think,
and in open source data science,
but these files are like really, really good.
It's super duper fast.
They compress really well.
And so I strongly advise you learning that using them,
particularly if you're doing any data cleaning.
I think it's a really good idea to study if the result is Parquet.
Okay, cool.
And then Satyarishi had asked,
what is a good way to store data dictionaries along with datasets?
And I think that the answer is probably what we're doing right now.
Exactly.
So again, I think you should be putting these in a plain text format.
You can use my data dictionary, not YAML format.
I'm kind of, I'm reasonably confident this is a useful format
and I'm going to keep working on it and make some more tools
so you can easily turn this into a beautiful website,
validate your data based on the spec,
all that sort of stuff,
but currently just kind of learning about it
and trying it out and seeing what's happening.
Okay.
And we have a question from Nathan also that says,
is this particular data dict.yaml format specification
useful for projects with only one table of data?
Yes.
And this indeed is one,
this project only has one table of data
and I think we'll see hopefully as we go along that it is useful.
I think so.
So now we're just going to take a look at the diff of the data dict.yaml
and see what information it has.
Okay, we've got a point in time snapshot,
not a live feed.
Well, that's kind of obvious.
So seven, so this is interesting.
Seven test rows carry the literal street name dummy record
and should be filtered out for analysis.
So that's going to be something like,
like, let's fix that shortly.
So now we've at least got all of this information from that readme
and now we've encoded it in the same place.
And so I'm not going to, again, I'm just going to skim this.
We've got some information like,
okay, this variable is really inconsistent.
You know, be careful when you're using this.
All of this is like super useful information
if you're going to be analyzing this data set.
What else have we got down the bottom?
Okay, approximate longitude.
It's here, it's here.
Okay, so I'm going to say update data dict.
Okay, so now what I want to do next
is start like diving into this data dictionary
and fixing some of those issues.
So I'm going to say, okay, remove the dummy records.
Updating clean data dict.
So we're just going to now iterate,
like, let's make this data cleaner.
So I'm going to ask QWORD to update those three things.
It's going to update my data cleaning script.
It's going to put the results in the data dictionary.
And then it's going to run my R code
to create an updated parquet file.
And then we'll look at that in the source code
and see what it's done.
So it has added a line to strip out all of the street names.
And then, okay, it's updated there.
I'm just going to delete this.
I don't think that's that important.
It's removed the seven test rows.
It's removed that later in the data dictionary as well.
Okay, so now I can check that and remove that many rows.
And so I think, like, one of the things that's really nice
about having these three files in concert
is it's pretty easy for me to check
that QWORD's done the right thing, right?
Because I can just go in here,
check that QWORD's done the right thing, right?
Because I'm seeing it's updated my cleaning script
and it's updated the data dictionary.
Becca had a question along that line,
which was, is cloud also going to decide
when it's a good time to make a commit?
Uh, actually, well, let's try that out next time.
Because we can, you can do that.
I don't always do that.
But yes, you can also tell it to commit.
So let's go back to that address and street name.
Because I just noticed this white space is not normalized
and may contain multiple internal spaces.
So, okay, let's say normalize a white space and street.
I like the typo in normalize
because it's very much what I would be doing.
Cloud figures it out, man.
The other thing that's nice is, like,
I don't ever, like, I didn't hold down the shift key
to type street underscore name.
Right.
So, okay.
So again, what's it done?
It's updated my cleaning script.
It's using gsub to remove multiple sequences spaces
with a single space.
And it's trimming the white space on either end.
It updates the dictionary.
I'm just going to, I don't really care.
I'm just going to delete that comment.
Because I don't think you need to record
that sort of information in the data dictionary
when it's recorded in your clean.r.
We've done that.
And now I can say commit it.
And we'll see what core does.
It's going to look at the current git status.
It's going to look at the git log.
I'm not sure why it's doing this.
I'm just going to say, what did I go?
What did it do?
Add normalized street name white space.
Okay.
Sounds good.
So much trust.
We have a couple of questions.
Do we want to fit some in right now while it's cooking?
Yeah.
Okay.
So Brian had asked, if we see somebody scrolls way up,
they'll see.
Brian said, is there a way that the YAML format
data dictionary could be used as an input?
For example, recode underscore values,
which is the new dplyr function.
Yes, probably not with recode values literally,
but I think there's various things that you can't,
that parquet files don't store very well.
One of those things in particular is labels.
Statisticians and data scientists love labeled values.
Parquet files have no way to kind of add
additional nice long labels to short information.
So I'm imagining at some point,
there will be an R package to accompany this file
that will read that, read in your parquet file,
read in the data dictionary and apply the labels.
Awesome.
So what else should we do?
Let's just kind of look through.
And right now, just to point out that we're working
in a working tree of our data.data.dict.yaml.
It's so hard for me to say.
We are hoping to have an episode on working trees.
Hopefully in June, maybe.
Isabella and I have not pinned down a date yet,
but we hope to be able to give you a whole episode
on working trees soon.
Especially because that's the way that Cloud works
all the time.
And I have found myself lately being like, gosh,
I wish I knew more about working trees
since I am now working in them kind of all the time.
OK.
Now I'm going to make a slightly dubious decision.
And I'm going to say, like, looking at the zip code,
like, frequently stored, I'm just going to say,
like, let's just make this all five-digit zip codes.
Well, no, actually, I don't like that.
Like, let's get rid of, I mean, it says treat
non-five-digit values as dirty.
And it also says frequently stored as a nine-digit zip.
OK, let's just tell me.
Tell me about the sizes of zip code.
I mean, sizes are a bit underspecified.
So we'll see.
So it's going to, like, read that parquet file in R.
It's going to, like, presumably do table
on the number of characters.
And then it's going to tell me about that.
And that's going to kind of, OK.
So there are most, so 82% of them are nine digits.
So let's not, let's.
Is it storing it as a number?
Yeah, which is also.
Jenna and I agree.
They should be strings.
You're not going to do any math on a zip code.
Yes.
OK, so let's do that.
OK, so make it a string.
And replace zero with and with proper missing values.
So again, you're going to imagine
it's going to update that clean.R.
It's going to update my data dictionary.
And it's going to update the parquet file.
And again, I just love this process
because it makes it so clear, like,
what's happening in every step.
And then you can go back in your git history
and see exactly what you've done.
OK, so let's change it to a string.
Usually a nine digit.
Seven percent.
I'm not going to say clean.
I'm going to say 80% are nine digits of plus four.
And again, I don't care about that.
And we've got a few nice example values.
I'll look at my clean.R.
OK, convert it to character.
OK, that looks good.
And now I'm going to tell it to commit it.
All right, do we have time for some questions?
Sure.
Andreas asked, does MPC REPL work on a Windows machine?
And can one use other AI LLM, for example, chat GPT with it?
Yes, it does work on Windows and Linux.
And I should say one of the things that I didn't say
about MCP REPL that is really important
is that it runs all of your code in a sandbox.
And so inside that sandbox, it can't connect
to anything over the network.
And it can't look at any files
outside of the current working directory.
So that's one of the advantages of MCP REPL
is it allows you to run arbitrary RLM
and arbitrary R code in a way that's pretty safe.
And it's using this operating system level sandboxes.
So there's no way for bad R code to get out
and do naughty things.
So this gives you, typically, an LLM
is not just going to randomly generate really malicious code.
But this just gives you this nice layer of protection,
ensuring that it can't do anything
outside of the directory you're actively working in.
Awesome.
OK.
So and this is just another thing
I know that I've looked at in here is stored.
And how we parse, I don't think we, actually,
let's look at the parquet file.
Let's look at last.
What's this?
It's a little wider.
Well, like last insp date is currently stored as a number.
That's not good.
db last per insp date is a string.
That's also not good.
And db approval date is also a string.
OK, so let's fix that.
Make sure you parse all the date columns as dates.
So this is a good example where the data dictionary is actually
wrong.
It says it's a date, but it's not actually
recorded as a date in the file.
This is typical, right?
An LLM is not perfect.
It's going to make mistakes.
The goal is to create a process by which, over time,
you discover those mistakes and fix them.
And the whole thing gets better.
And you can see exactly what's going on.
So now, again, we look at our git diff.
And git is such an important piece of this
because I can see exactly what the LLM has done at each point.
It's used a for loop.
Certainly, we can, I don't know if this is the way I would
have written this code.
But it's taking a very low-level base R approach here.
But I kind of don't really care because I
didn't have to write that code.
All right, well, while we're watching McCulloch
really quickly, Jenna Jordan had asked,
do you see a meaningful distinction between data
dicts and data contracts?
That is a very good question.
I had initially thought of data dictionaries
and data validation or data contracts
as being very distinct.
But as I have worked on this, I think
they are actually very closely related.
And one of my next steps is to start building out a tool.
So you can take a data dictionary
and compare it to a data file and discover
if there are any inconsistencies.
So I think that the data dictionary does actually
end up specifying a lot of information
that you want in a contract.
And so while here I'm focusing on the cleaning,
I think you could also have written down a day
or come up with a data dictionary some other way.
And now you're using it to check that the data that you
get is good.
So let's just quickly look at this
and we'll come back to that idea.
Because one thing I think we should record,
one thing we want to record in this data
is for dates and numbers.
We should have the range here so we
can at a glance see what are the valid values.
So let's just see what we have done.
Again, looking at Git, OK, we saw that.
It's dropping that.
No longer integers.
So OK, getting easier to understand.
OK, and we'll just say, words, dates, to your base.
Again, here I'm like, I think it's faster for me.
I don't know, maybe not.
Maybe my commit messages aren't as good.
But it's certainly faster to type that
than to ask what to do it.
So let's just go back to it and just ask it.
I'm going to ask it to add ranges to all American date
columns.
And while that happens, we can do another question.
We've got one queued up.
We have plenty.
Darren had asked, I'm curious how
Hadley views his approach to data dictionaries
and the development of point blank.
Yeah, that's an interesting question.
Closely, as data dictionaries, as I kind of
realize they do more validation, I'm like, oh, yeah, OK.
I need to think about what this means with respect
to point blank.
Like, obviously, there's a lot in this data dictionary
that point blank does not concern itself with.
Point blank does not help you describe
what the variables mean or give you examples to look at.
But if we start thinking about this as a validation framework,
obviously, there's going to be a lot of things
obviously, there's going to be a lot of overlap.
And I need to think about that and think about how
this is going to work.
Because I also want to make sure this data dictionary,
like as you may have seen with various recent work at Posit,
we're trying to help all data scientists,
not just data scientists who use R.
How do we help data scientists who use Python?
How do we help data scientists use SQL?
And so if I turn this into a data validation tool,
I don't want it to just work with R and Python.
I want it to work if you've got a parquet file
in a data dictionary, we should be able to line them up
and check them.
So that maybe means redoing a bunch of the work
and point blank.
Maybe it means reusing point blank in some way.
I don't yet know the answer to that.
That's what I was thinking.
Maybe pointing point blank towards the datadict.yaml
and saying, hey, you use this as your source of truth.
I don't know enough about point blank for that to make sense,
but that's all right.
All right, fantastic questions from everybody.
And if we could do one more while we're in this datadict
area, Colin had asked, datadict.yaml looks a lot
like a JSON schema.
So can a datadict be converted to a JSON schema
for validation and ability to leverage that tool suite
very much in the same zone?
Yeah, I mean, that would be one way to approach validating it.
Again, I think I would rather do something custom
that works directly with this YAML.
There are various ways of doing YAML specifications.
And the reason I chose YAML here rather than JSON
is that this is something that I imagine humans
are going to be editing as well.
And this is much easier.
YAML is much easier to edit compared to JSON.
Yes, so much easier.
All right, let's keep going.
We are 34 minutes in, so we have plenty of time.
OK, so we've recorded a few ranges now.
I think this is kind of useful.
I'll record language and data dictionary.
And this brings up, I keep committing
and then my diff goes away, placeholder.
OK, we've got a bunch of different placeholders
in different columns.
So let's eliminate all the placeholder values
and use proper missing values instead.
It's a very, very common exercise
when you are converting data collected
by non-data scientists who don't really
have this idea of a missing value.
They often use placeholder or sentinel values.
Like, let's fix that and use proper missing values.
So if we do counts or means, we get the correct thing
without having to constantly remember,
oh, in column seven, a missing value
is actually recorded as a zero.
So make sure you remember all the zeros
before you compute a mean.
So again, that data, you see that data dictionary
kind of updating.
Let's see what it's done.
Look, so listen to this.
This is beautiful.
We've got at least three different,
oh, OK, we have zero, 10,000, star, star,
dash, dash, dash, dash, zero, all used
to represent missing values in various places.
I feel like that's a really excellent use of Claude.
Tell me what all these disparate missing values are
in all these different variables.
Yeah, and fix it for me.
Yeah, I remember that's one of the hardest things
when I first started in data was I'd read my own data file
in and I couldn't get anywhere because
of all of the different and completely
unique missing values that were used
for all these different things.
And this just makes it so fast.
You don't need to have all of the code
to do this at the top of your head.
Claude can generate it, and then you
can still super, super important
that you're reading this code.
you can, you know, still super, super important
that you're reading this code
because like you wanna check that it's doing the right thing
but much, much faster
because you have to type all of that out by hand.
Those ligature left assignment arrows are so cute.
Okay, we have time for one more question from Nathan
and it says, so in this case,
the parquet file is checked into Git.
Is that more advisable when working with LLMs?
Like normally I've heard to avoid checking data into Git.
It's really more about the size of the data, I think.
Like if you can commit the data into Git,
it just makes the rest of your life like so much easier
because that data is now versioned
along with all of your code.
And this data happens to be public, non-private,
non-sensitive too.
So that's an aspect of this.
Right, so I think like that, if you can't,
I think my advice is if you can commit it to Git,
you should commit it to Git
because it's gonna make everything,
it's gonna make it easier to see
like how the data has changed over time.
You can roll back to previous versions,
all of those really nice features of using Git.
Lots of cases where you can't use Git,
you can't put the data into Git, it's too big,
it's confidential, lots of reasons.
This workflow still works there.
You'll still have that clean.csv,
you'll still have that data dictionary,
just don't wind up the parquet file checked in.
Awesome.
Okay.
We have some comments in the chat too
from people talking about their considerations
for checking data into Git.
So thank you everybody who's adding your expertise here.
Connor had also asked a great question,
which is can you show off a diff of a parquet file
and what that looks like?
Yes.
Uh-oh.
So this is the downs,
this is one of those downsides of parquet files
I mentioned how you can't easily diff them.
I guess I've never clicked this before, but let's.
You have the open anyway button?
Hmm. Yeah.
Wow.
Okay, yeah, oops.
Whoa.
Yeah, so that's not gonna be useful.
Definitely not, not visually.
Feels like something that,
like that is something that we could fix
or the Positron team could fix.
Like maybe I should at least drop a message
in our Slack channel and be like,
hey, have we thought about this?
It would be pretty slick.
Okay.
Do you want any more questions or you want to?
No, I think that we are good on questions.
I think that that was the last one for right now.
Somebody can remind me in the chat
if I have somehow skipped over your question.
I'm so sorry.
Okay, so this is interesting.
We've got a classic weird-ass scroll problem.
Okay.
I just asked it, what could I do?
Generate like this, convert this to numeric.
We could fix the obviously wrong geocodes
with some of the Pennsylvania.
This is kind of interesting.
Like this is a thing where I'd be like, okay, yeah.
Like, yes, we could use a latitude and longitude
bounding box to zoom in on New York City.
I would have zero clue what those are.
I would have relatively little.
I don't know whether you should trust this or not,
but we could look at that.
Actually, let's do that one.
Like let's look at the non-NYC zip code
start by writing the map dot R.
And I'm just going to do that.
What I'm hoping it will do is create a plot
of all of the latitudes and longitudes,
just because I've given it enough context
to say that I want a map and the file name.
And we'll see what that does.
Okay, it's doing some, oh, interesting.
So it's decided to look at New York City zip code prefixes.
That's interesting.
And then it's going to,
so it's actually sort of interesting.
Like it has actually run that code and looked at the plot,
but we can't see the plot.
So I'm just going to source this in RStudio
and then Positron, sorry, and look at that.
And that is like pretty obvious
that something is wrong with those,
like there's some ones that are way outside.
So yeah, drop the points that are obviously out of range.
Again, if you're doing this for a real analysis,
you'd want to be thinking a little bit more.
Okay, and it's updated my map.r, which is fine.
Let's just move around that.
Okay, that looks more like New York City.
I think, at least for my not terribly amazing knowledge
of New York City,
it's now I want it to like,
no, let's update.
And that, I don't know.
Just so you know, if you're not looking in the chat Hadley,
we currently have a vote going on
on how much this vibe session is going to cost,
but we have no idea if you're going to be able to tell us
at the end what the token cost is.
Ask, let's see.
All right, slash cost for everybody who is,
paying attention to what Hadley is typing into Cloud here.
And it looks like while we are seasoning on that slash cost,
we do have a question that I think I missed.
Andreas brought it to light for me.
Let's see, the question was,
oh, I just scrolled away from it, Andreas.
Thank you for helping me get there.
Jeff said, I'm curious to know how much this hour
of using Cloud Code will cost.
Can we get an update at the end?
Oh, the same question that we were just on.
Okay, great.
Yeah, we'll get back.
Yes, we did it.
Well, that's dumb.
I cannot tell you that
because I'm using my Cloud Code subscription.
Aha, well, David had also asked an easier one,
which model is Hadley using?
Slash model.
The recommended to Opus 4.7.
With its 1 million contacts window.
And I will say, like, I,
I'm trying to think how to put this,
like, I guess I don't care about money.
Like, I get, like, whatever.
Like, if it saves me a minute or two
and it costs me $5, like, I don't care.
I am not a cost-conscious consumer of LLMs.
And I 100% accept that it's coming
from a place of privilege.
But I do think for, like, what we're doing here,
I suspect, like, that there are cheaper models
that would do almost as well
and bring, substantially bring the cost down.
But that, I don't care about that
because I have little money.
I have little time and a lot of money,
so I optimize for that.
We will forgive you.
So let's just, let's, oops, close that plot down
to see what we've done.
I think we all want Hadley to use whatever he has to use
to develop all of the cool things that we get to use.
Slightly different use case.
Russ says thumbs up.
And then Connor had asked a question in the chat
that I didn't understand.
What CRS is it using to determine
what coordinates are inside New York?
Connor, what is, what is CRS?
Coordinate reference system.
I don't know.
I don't care, but I trust that plot.
So again, if you're doing a real analysis,
you would want to figure that out.
But I'm guessing that Claude has enough knowledge
to know the location of New York City
and based on what I saw on that map,
but that's pretty good.
I will show you one other thing I saw
because it's kind of related.
When you update map.r to add a map
of elevators around Central Park.
Because this was kind of interesting
and I spent a little bit of time
looking at this previously.
And again, this is something that like,
this would be so tedious to do by hand
and I will see how well Claude actually does here,
but like it probably knows the approximate latitude
and longitude of Central Park
and it can figure that out and update this code.
I'm definitely showing my lack of knowledge
for spatial analysis here.
So thank you for everybody who's adding context
about CRS in the chat.
I have no idea why I decided
to put a dark green rectangle there.
That seems pretty pointless,
but this, yeah, I did this earlier
and this is kind of interesting, right?
Like, so what's this elevator
like right in the middle of Central Park?
So let's ask.
What's, when you pull out the rows for the elevators
that are inside of Central Park?
Let's see, you can park.
Oh yeah.
The bounding box is clearly totally wrong
because it's square.
So Claude just messed that up.
Elevators inside the buildings, inside the park,
the Met, the Delacorte, the Boathouse,
the Tavern on the Green,
like I'm skeptical about this.
I'm pretty sure that's the Met there.
That's the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
I'm sure that has elevators,
but this one like right in the middle.
Oh, and now we're in, now we've gone into cool.
Uh-oh.
What is that?
Cool gibberish mode.
We are summoning the ancients now.
Connor, thank you in the chat
for giving us some more context.
CRS is how we know how to plot coordinates on the earth,
adjusting for the fact that the earth is not flat.
Okay, we had a question,
which I will scroll up to from Nelly that says,
is there a way to quantify
environmental and electrical costs?
Like not ones that affect one's personal finances,
but still have an effect on the world?
That is a very hard question, I think.
Yes.
Yes, that is, yeah, I think it is important
to be worried about the environmental aspects of LLMs.
I, yeah, like for me,
like for my usage of LLMs personally,
I am reasonably certain that they are a pretty small
proportion of my overall impact on the environment.
And so what that means is like,
if I want to do good for the environment,
then the place to start is not to decrease my LLM usage,
it's to like fly less, or, you know, we have a solar,
we have electric cars and a solar powered roof.
So those are the things like, you know,
I really believe in climate change
and we should all be doing things
to try and make the environment better individually.
And so if you want to do that,
I think the way to do that is not to decrease
your LLM usage, but to look for other things.
But then at like obviously a societal level,
like individually, it might not be a big use,
but across millions of people,
it adds up to be a big impact.
And now I'm like out here,
like writing tools to make LLMs easier to use,
like how do I kind of square that
with caring about the environment?
I think that Nellie has a good point,
which I think about a lot.
Nellie says, there's certainly a difference
between people making AI slop videos on mass
and people making code to do research.
And I think about that a lot with like the number
of extremely wealthy people
who are flying private jets places
that they don't really need to be flying private jets places
kind of back and forth all over the place.
And if it helps, I am offsetting all of our carbon footprints
by never leaving my house.
Okay, we have cooked.
And I think that Claude has completed something,
but I'm not sure.
Yeah, I think, oh, it says no elevators
are generally located inside Central Park.
That's what Noor was asking.
Is this supposed to be Central Park?
Yes, I think so.
And so it's fair, I think, yeah, I mean, this is now,
I'm like, how could I specify that that is that one point
I really care about?
And I don't.
Because Central Park is definitely
a big rectangle on the map.
Yes.
We know that.
Skimming this, it is not located at this point.
I mean.
Like this is the this is the type of case
where you just want to be like, oh, let me select that point.
And I don't know how to do that, so we will just.
OK, actually, maybe what if I just did.
Give.
And Jared saying we need Gigi Plotly.
Yeah, what is this?
Five closest elevators with centroid.
Colin says, can we remake the map with an interactive library?
We could. I'm not going to.
This is a bit of a well, we'll see how far are we diverging
from our main diverging a little bit from data dictionaries, but.
OK, so.
Interesting, so now we could pull out this device, but that's.
That's the minute.
I don't know, that's a mystery that that is like a mystery that.
We should.
It is also it's possible that this is like, again,
these are escalators and dumbwaiters, so maybe.
There's a restaurant there with.
Oh, you know, Jared says if the coordinates are 40.7 by negative 73.9,
it could be the NYPD Central Park Precinct.
Interesting. And looking at it on the on the just eyeballing the coordinates,
that could be it.
Let's just try one more thing, let's see if I can get on a leaflet map.
I'm basically worried about doing anything with the map.
I'm basically worried about doing these interactive things because it's like
maybe thousands of points there and maybe they'll.
We have a few people who are native NYC folks in the chat
that are helping us out a little bit here.
OK, this is where it's geocoded it to and it is a freight elevator
and the address is 1000 Fifth Avenue.
So I think that is a geocoding mistake.
I do not believe there is an elevator in the Great Lawn or somewhere near it.
I guess it could be the New York Central Park Precinct, but given that the address.
Let's just pull this out and now we could now like now it's just too.
Yeah, Dan says that point is in the middle of the Great Lawn or a reservoir.
I'm also seeing how this is the downside of using an AI for everything.
I don't even know what the name of that variable is.
So let's go to my data dictionary.
Look at so many elevator conspiracies in the chat now.
What?
Oh.
OK, here we go.
Oh, I don't know.
Did you just have to tell it which filter to use?
I should have.
OK.
So we can see, yeah, 1000 Fifth Avenue, it's a freight elevator.
I don't know if there's anything else there that really tells us anything,
but I'm just going to say that is a bad geocoding.
Although that does make me see there's a weird dot dot dot 27.
I don't know.
OK, let's just say.
So clearly there's a column.
It's interesting there's a column in the data frame that's not in the data dictionary.
And again, this is where you really want like a tool to be double checking them
so that the LLM is less likely to make mistakes,
because you've got that as the data and the data dictionary all aligned.
Like it was never documented.
This is where we have to jump in with our last question that is unanswered,
which is Marco's asking,
how do you know this is actually faster or more productive than just writing the code?
Like the back and forth seems like it's a lot.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that's a good question.
And like, or like, is it faster or is it just does it take the same amount of time,
but it's just different work?
I don't know.
I kind of feel like I could have probably written this code fairly quickly.
Like this is legit.
This is legitimate time saving.
Like I would have to go and do some research to find that out.
But yeah, I don't know.
Like I think if I was less familiar with R code,
this would have taken me longer to write.
But as long as you can kind of read R code and interpret it,
and you can be fairly, you know,
I think you don't need a particularly sophisticated understanding of R code
to be able to read this and verify that it's doing what you wanted.
So I think like on the whole, like this is much faster.
It's also been much slower,
because I'm explaining everything I'm doing to you all and answering questions.
Like I do think it's fast.
I think it's like 10 times faster.
It's not faster than everything.
But you also don't, like you don't have to use it when it's slower.
Like you can still do all of this by hand.
I think it's still a useful workflow.
But that whole idea of keeping these three files in sync,
I think is really powerful and really useful.
And I, you know, if you have more feedback about this,
I'd like love to hear about it,
because this is something that I am going to be working on more
and over the coming weeks and months.
Yeah.
Well, I will say Rachel and I have been talking about
having a data science hangout all about these,
like existential AI questions with some posit AI brains.
And so look forward to that.
I think in the future,
be a great space to have these kind of conversations
and talk about this stuff out loud.
And then also as an update,
Dan Chen put a link in the chat to a Gizmodo article
about an artificial cave beneath Central Park,
and that maybe that is a maintenance elevator.
The conspiracy continues.
Because during inside the article,
elevator is mentioned three times.
Like there is definitely somebody riding an elevator
beneath Central Park.
I guess the other thing we could do actually
is if we go back to that code.
So you thought you were coming to learn about data dictionaries.
Actually, we have one minute left till the top of the hour,
and we are solving a conspiracy theory
about the elevator in the middle of Central Park.
Yeah, this is the official elevator data
where this came from.
Yeah, like no real information.
I'm assuming 1005th Avenue is, yeah.
The Met.
All right.
Well, I have to end us.
I have to stop us from what we're doing,
and we have to move on.
But I really, really hope that today was useful for everybody,
that you learned a lot about this sort of collaborative,
work process that I think for Hadley
is still like a work in process a little bit of refining.
And we would love to hear the ways
that you are doing all of this stuff
and the way that you're implementing.
Actually, that is not the Met.
That's the New Zealand Museum of Natural History.
Which is probably where my cousin is right now.
She's a volunteer at the American Museum
of Natural History, waving to my cousin.
All right, everybody, this was fantastic.
I had a great time.
I hope that you did too.
We got every single question answered.
All right, everybody, say goodbye.
Bye, everyone.
Thank you.
Thanks.